Instructions for installing galgebra3 and all required supporting
software on Windows 10 or Ubuntu (Debian, Linux Mint).  The supporting
software includes python3 needed to run any python program, pip to
install python package such as sympy and jupyterlab, sympy the scalar
python computer algebra package that galgebra3 requires, and jupyterlab
the successor to jupyter notebook that allows writing densly annotated
(with LaTeX if desired) python programs that can be used for interactive
python package (such as galgebra3) tutorials.

Additionally, there are instructions for installing geany, a programmers
editor, that works well for python coding and allows one to execute
python code from within the editor and for also installing LaTeX for
generating LaTeX output directly (not using Jupyterlab) from your
galgebra3 python code.


Files in galgebra3:

    Add_Open_command_window_here.reg - Win 10 register file to allow
        opening administrator command prompt from directory context
        menu.
    ga.py - Class for creating geometric algebra.
    __init__.py - Init for galgebra3.
    lt.py - Class for linear transformations.
    metric.py - Class for metric tensor.
    mv.py - Class for multivectors.
    printer.py - Classes for multivector printing.
    setgapth.py - Installation script of galgebra3.

Ubuntu (Debian, Linux Mint) installation instructions:

1. See if python 3 is installed by executing in a terminal

       python3

2. If it is not installed execute in the terminal

       sudo apt install python3

3. Now continue by executing in the terminal

       sudo apt install python3-pip
       pip3 install sympy
       pip3 install jupyterlab
       pip3 install nbopen
       python3 -m nbopen.install_xdg

4. Now open a terminal in the galgebra3/galgebra3 directory and
   execute

       sudo python3 setgapth.py

5. If you want a good programmers editor execute

       sudo apt install geany

   Now open the file browser and right click on a .py file. and open
   properties and then open with and select geany.  This will allow
   one to double click on a .py file and have it opened with geany for
   editing or execution.  Now open a .py with geany and open from the
   geany menus Build->Set Build Commands.  In the Set Build Commands
   Execute menu replace python with python3. Now when you execute a
   python program from within geany python3 will be used instead of
   python.

6. If you want to use galgebra3's LaTeX formatting instead of only using
   LaTeX formatting in Jupyterlab install a version of LaTeX.  Warning,
   executing the following terminal command takes a while.

       sudo apt install texlive-full


Win 10 installation instructions:

1. Download python 3 windows installer executable for your hardware from
   python.org.

2. Double left click on windows installer executable.

3. On installation window check box for setting path and click on
   installation button.  Python 3 will install along with pip.

4. Install "open command window here" by double left clicking on the
   Add_Open_command_window_here.reg file in galgebra3/galgebra3
   directory.  Open command window here will be used to install the
   galbebra3 python modules.

5. Execute the following pip commands in a command prompt window:

        python -m pip install --upgrade pip
        pip install sympy
        pip install jupyterlab
        python -m pip install nbopen
        python -m nbopen.install_win

6. Right click on the galgebra3 directory and open the administrator
   command prompt here from the context menu. In the administrator
   command prompt type:

        python setgapth.py

   This will install the (add to python PATH environment) galgebra3
   modules.

7. If you are only using jupyterlab to program you need do no more.  If
   you wish to use galgeba3 in stand alone python 3 programs I suggest
   installing the programmers editor geany.  In geany you can execute
   the python program from within the editor. To install geany in
   win 10:

        a. Go to geany website https://www.geany.org/
        b. Download the geany release for windows.
        c. Double left click on the downloaded installation file.

8. If you wish to use the LaTeX output formatting from stand alone
   python 3 program (not needed for Jupyterlab LaTex output) you need
   to install a Windows version of LaTeX.  To install miktex on win 10
   go to https://miktex.org/download and follow the instructions on the
   website.


